Christian Calinawan
Art 104
Reading 5
February 28, 2018

John Berger's "Ways of Seeing" discussed the way the creation of the camera revolutionized the way we see things. Before its invention,
everything we saw came from only our eyes which could only be at once point in space at a time. Everything we experienced moved with our
own eyes. However, the invention of the camera changed that. With its creation, images from across the world could be brought to us in
front of our own eyes. Of course we are not seeing the real thing, but we are seeing the closest thing possible at the time, the way the
camera captured that image. It is an eye of its own, able to take snapshots of time and save them as data and print them later. I thought
it was interesting when one of the narrators spoke in first person in place of the camera. The words of a human film director, it made the
camera feel more alive and humanlike than just a robot. However, we know that is not the case. Most cameras are not self-aware and require
human input to be active. It is also interesting how the camera's creation changed the ways we looked at paintings. The video discusses how
with the camera, any once unique painting can now be recreated nearly perfectly in any size or dimension. There is still the original
painting with its uniqueness, yet the camera somewhat takes that away by being able to capture any image and reproduce it. They can now be
in many places at once. Does it decrease the value of the original work? It might since there would be more copies available to anyone, the
original painting lowers in value. However, we know that this is not the case today as many famous paintings are still highly sought after
and admired. Seeing the painting on a computer screen is not the same as seeing it in person in a gallery. The original carries a special
trait that no camera can capture, and that being that it was created by a human. 

In the second episode, Berger's switches focus from the creation of the camera and its relationship to how we viewed paintings to how we
view each other, and the human figure and nakedness in particular. We create societal norms that affect the ways we feel we should look and
how we should look at others. We judge each other based on looks and everyone knows that, leading to the thought that meeting eyes is like
looking into a mirror. We picture ourselves and how we are presented infront of the other person and how they would perceive us. It also
discusses the use of nudity in early oil paintings. The women in these paintings often glance at the audience with a look of charm. Even
if there is another male in the painting, it is common for the painted women to look away from them and towards the spectator. I think this
is also an interesting trait of these oil paintings. Eye contact between two, even if its in a painting, creates a relationship and makes
the painting feel more immersive. 
